Comments + AI bot example (#1350)
liveblocks/liveblocks: guides/pages/how-to-test-webhooks-on-localhost.mdx

---
meta:
  title: "How to test webhooks on localhost"
  description:
    "Learn how to test Liveblocks webhooks on your local system using
    localtunnel or ngrok."
---

Testing webhooks on your local system can be difficult, but there are ways to
make it possible using tools such as
[`localtunnel`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/localtunnel) and
[`ngrok`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngrok).

## Create an endpoint in your project

The first step in testing webhooks is making sure you have an API endpoint set
up in your project. This is the endpoint that’ll receive the webhook event from
Liveblocks.

In order to use webhooks, we’ll need to retrieve the `headers` and `body` from
the request. Here’s the basic endpoint we’ll be starting from:

```ts
export async function POST(request: Request) {
  const body = await request.json();
  const headers = request.headers;

  // Handle webhooks
  // ...

  return new Response(null, { status: 200 });
}
```

Create this endpoint in your project, and make it available on `localhost` at
the following URL:

```

> /api/liveblocks-database-sync

Reviewer: Since the guide is generic I think we should not mention a single particular use-case.

```suggestion
/api/liveblocks-webhook
```

```

## Testing webhooks locally

Tools such as `localtunnel` and `ngrok` allow you to temporarily place your
localhost server online, by providing you with a temporary URL. Let’s take a
look at these two options.

### localtunnel

[`localtunnel`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/localtunnel) allows you to get
started without signing up. If your project is running on `localhost:3000`, you
can run the following `localtunnel` command to generate your URL, which will
stay online while your localhost server is running:

```bash
npx localtunnel --port 3000
```

Visit the URL that localtunnel creates, and correctly input your IP address as
it requests. The URL `localtunnel` generates can be placed into the Liveblocks
webhooks dashboard for quick testing.

### ngrok

[`ngrok`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngrok) requires you to sign up and
install, but it has more features and is simpler to use after you’ve created an
account. If your project is running on `localhost:3000`, you can run the
following `ngrok` command to generate your URL, which will stay online while
your localhost server is running:

```bash
ngrok http 3000
```

> The URL is generates can be placed into the Liveblocks webhooks dashboard for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The URL it generates can be placed into the Liveblocks webhooks dashboard for
```

quick testing.

## Set up webhooks on the Liveblocks dashboard

To use webhooks, you need to pass your endpoint URL to the webhooks dashboard

> inside your Liveblocks project, and tell the webhook to trigger when Storage
> document data has changed.

Reviewer: Since the guide is generic I think we should not mention a single particular use-case.

```suggestion
inside your Liveblocks project, and tell the webhook to trigger on any specific [webhook events](/docs/platform/webhooks#Liveblocks-events).
```

  <StepContent>
    Enter the URL of the endpoint. In a production app this will be the real
    endpoint, but for now enter your `localtunnel` or `ngrok` URL from earlier.

    You can filter for any specific [webhook events](/docs/platform/webhooks#Liveblocks-events) here, in case you’d only like to listen to certain types.
    <Figure>
      <Image
        src="/assets/tutorials/webhooks/liveblocks-add-endpoint-url.png"
        alt="Add endpoint URL"
        width={712}
        height={445}
      />
    </Figure>

  </StepContent>
</Step>

{" "}

<Step>
  <StepTitle>Get your secret key</StepTitle>
  <StepContent>
    Click **“Create endpoint”** at the bottom, then find your **“Webhook secret
    key”** on the next page, and copy it.
    <Figure>
      <Image
        src="/assets/tutorials/webhooks/liveblocks-get-secret-key.png"
        alt="Copy your webhook secret key"
        width={712}
        height={445}
      />
    </Figure>
  </StepContent>
</Step>

  <Step lastStep>
    <StepTitle>Webhooks dashboard is set up!</StepTitle>

    <StepContent>
      Done! Let’s go back to the code.
    </StepContent>

  </Step>
</Steps>

## Verify the webhook request

> It’s recommend to verify that your webhook requests have come from Liveblocks,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s recommended to verify that your webhook requests have come from Liveblocks,
```

and the [`@liveblocks/node`](/docs/api-reference/liveblocks-node) package
provides you with a function that will verify this for you. You can set this up
by creating a
[`WebhookHandler`](/docs/api-reference/liveblocks-node#WebhookHandler) and
running [`verifyRequest`](/docs/api-reference/liveblocks-node#verifyRequest).

> Make sure to add your “Liveblocks webhook Secret” from the Liveblocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to add your "Webhook secret key" from the Liveblocks
```

```ts highlight="2,8-10,28-37"
import { WebhookHandler } from "@liveblocks/node";
import { Liveblocks } from "@liveblocks/node";

// Add your webhook secret key from a project's webhooks dashboard
const WEBHOOK_SECRET = "YOUR_WEBHOOK_SECRET";
const webhookHandler = new WebhookHandler(WEBHOOK_SECRET);

// Add your secret key from a project's API keys dashboard
const API_SECRET = "{{SECRET_KEY}}";
const liveblocks = new Liveblocks({ secret: API_SECRET });

export async function POST(request: Request) {
  const body = await request.json();
  const headers = request.headers;

  // Verify if this is a real webhook request
  let event;
  try {
    event = webhookHandler.verifyRequest({
      headers: headers,
      rawBody: JSON.stringify(body),
    });
  } catch (err) {
    console.error(err);
    return new Response("Could not verify webhook call", { status: 400 });
  }

  // When a new thread has been created
  if (event.type === "threadCreated") {
    const { roomId, threadId } = event.data;

    // Fetch new thread
    const thread = await liveblocks.getThread({ roomId, threadId });

    // Use thread
    // ...
  }

  return new Response(null, { status: 200 });
}
```

> Visit the [webhook event](/docs/platform/webhooks#Liveblocks-events) section of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit the [webhook events](/docs/platform/webhooks#Liveblocks-events) section of
```
